---
layout: post
title: My 2018 Reading List
date: '2018-12-29 11:14:28 +0100'
categories: blog
featured-img: /assets/images/book-images/Stoner.jpg
tagline: A list of everything I managed to read in 2018, if I finished it, it's on this list and well worth a read.
published: true
---

Following on from a resolution last year to read more books and make better notes on my thoughts and opinions about them. The result of this is the below list of every book I have read this year, simply for prosperity to look back on. As I finished every book on the list that means they are all recommended. Personally, I have no time to read a book that doesn’t grab me by the halfway point. So everything on this list is well worth a read (depending on your personal tastes of course).  As I update the site with more detailed discussions on some of the books listed below, I’ll update this page with the relevant links.

1. A Long Way to a Small Angry Planet - Becky Chambers
2. B is for Bauhaus - Deyan Sudjic
3. Monday Starts in Saturday - Arkady and Boris Strugatsky
4. The Power - Naomi Alderman
5. Mindhunter - John Douglas
6. Luna: New Moon -  Ian McDonald
7. A Closed and Common Orbit - Becky Chambers
8. Too Like the Lightning - Ada Palmer
9. Emperor of the Eight Islands - Lian Hearn
10. Annihilation - Jeff VanderMeer
11. Seven Surrenders - Ada Palmer
12. The Handmaid's Tale - Margaret Atwood
13. Authority - Jeff VanderMeer
14. Foundation - Isaac Asimov
15. The Stars are Legion - Kameron Hurley
16. Foundation and Empire - Isaac Asimov
17. Dangerous Women: Part One - George R.R. Martin
18. Second Foundation - Isaac Asimov
19. The Will to Battle - Ada Palmer
20. Foundations Edge - Isaac Asimov
21. Acceptance - Jeff VanderMeer
22. Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep - Philip K.Dick
23. Foundation and Earth - Isaac Asimov
24. **Stoner - John Williams**
25. Exit West - Mohsin Hamid

If there is one book from the list above that you should read, it is Stoner by John Williams (highlighted in bold). This book is a true classic and an under-loved gem. Never have I read a novel written with such beautiful and yet sad poignancy, I challenge anyone to not be touched by it. Stoner is a story of one academics life, a life of disappointments but disappointments that are also filled with vivid moments of beauty and happiness. Stoner will force you to reflect on your own life, where and when have you found happiness and what will you look back on as the moments that really meant the most to you?
