---
layout: post
title: Okami HD
date: '2018-04-01 11:14:28 +0100'
categories: games2018
featured-img: /assets/images/post-images/okami.jpg
published: true
---
Okami HD is a 2018 re-release of Clover Studio’s seminal 2006 PS2 action-adventure game. Simply put if you enjoy The Legend of Zelda style games or action-adventure in general, you must play Okami. It is one of the finest examples of this genre and even holds up excellently today. Okami managed to out Nintendo-Nintendo and make a Zelda style game that was better than The Twilight Princess which was realised the same year. A beautiful game which was the crowning achievement of Clover Studios upon release, Okami deserves a place on everyone's shelf. 

Before we discuss anything else, the one thing which I guarantee will grab your attention about Okami is the absolutely incredible visuals. The whole game is done in the traditional Japanese sumi-e painting style, which is the style of black ink wash borders with vibrant watercolours. Okami looks like nothing else you will ever have seen, if you can imagine the Studio Ghibli film Princess Kaguya, then you’ll have some idea, but Okami did it ten years before and I have to say, better.
This unique style is even more beautiful today than it was all those years ago. It is also woven into the story and gameplay well, having you use brush strokes to alter the environment and return colour to a world where it has been drained away. Okami shows perfectly how good art trumps good graphics as Okami looks timeless compared to its 2006 contemporaries. Look at the drab blocky worlds of Twilight Princess to see how well the style of Okami holds up in comparison. 
This re-release also allows Okami to shine visually in a way it never could in its initial PS2 incarnation. Running in full HD and wide-screen is the way this was meant to be played 12 years ago. I'm sure it looks even more impressive in 4K but sadly my eyes have not been blessed with that treat but godspeed if you can play it that way. 

The game itself involves you controlling the wolf-god Amaterasu, a hero of legend who once vanquished the evil demon Orochi before he could destroy the world. 100 years later someone has released Orochi from his prison and it is up to Amaterasu to return to the world and save it once again. The story does start off with a very traditional Japanese tale of good versus evil, the kind that you would expect from this type of game. But it slowly opens up, introducing characters who are genuinely well written and bring a real warmth to this world. Even Issun, your little bug helper, who starts out incredibly irritating (Imagine Navi from Ocarina of Time but worse). Grows into a real character you will love to interact with and still hate at times but like a brother.

Structure-wise, the game is a traditional Legend of Zelda style largish overworld which connects challenging dungeons. This is Legend of Zelda before 2017’s Breath of the Wild of course but done better than Nintendo managed ever since Ocarina of Time. Clover Studios took this style and they perfected it. The world feels large yet it is compact enough to not have the wandering that many Zelda games have grown to have. I’m looking at you Wind Waker 🙄,  a big yet empty world is no fun for anyone. 

Although Amaterasu welds weapons and can run and jump, the main gameplay element which really sets Okami apart is the Celestial Brush she has. Taken from the Sumi-e painting style and the type of brush used in it. This is basically god powers represent by a magical brush. Allowing the player to draw slices to cut down trees or paint in bridges. So not only does the game look like a sumi-e painting but you as the player get to add your own brush strokes to it.  To boil it down, the brush acts like the items in a Zelda game. New powers are bestowed upon your brush allowing you to progress into areas previously locked. It is a clever enough twist on this idea and works so beautifully in the concept of the world that I am completely behind it. 

 The minds behind Clover went on to form Platinum Games, who you may know as being behind excellent action games such as the Bayonetta series. So it is no surprise that the foundations of those games combat systems can be seen in Okami, simplified yes but definitely there. The battle system is an interesting mix of hack ’slash fighting mixed with varied and interesting special abilities allowed by the celestial brush. The battle system is one of the best uses of the celestial brush concept. During fights the brush turns into a godlike weapon, allowing you to step in and attack enemies from above. Doing more damage than Amaterasu can do on her own.  The battle system has more depth than any Zelda with the artistic style of the game woven into it well.  The elegant use of combos and different abilities mix to form a smooth combat system. One which Nintendo has never shown much interest in giving to the Zelda series. Combat in Okami is a fun part of the game itself and not simply another obstacle in your way. 

Ultimately Okami is a hard game to not fall in love with. From the stunning visuals to the loveable characters, Okami will pull you in until its shown you everything it has 30 hours later. Yes, it’s a long game and my god can those unskippable cutscenes drag on. But nothing is bad enough in Okami to take away from its shine. Okami is a pinnacle in video games and art direction and if you like games then play this one. 